Blog - Eppo alternatives (#8795)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/best-eppo-alternatives.md

#### Key features

- 🚩 **Feature flags:** Rollout features safely with [local evaluation](/docs/feature-flags/local-evaluation) (for faster performance), JSON payloads, and instant rollbacks.

- 🧪 **A/B tests:** Experiment in your app with up to nine test variations and track impact on primary and secondary metrics. Auto-calculate test duration, sample size, and statistical significance.

- 📈 **Product analytics:** Custom trends, funnels, user paths, retention analysis, and segment user cohorts. Also, direct [SQL querying](/docs/product-analytics/sql) for power users.

- 📺 **Session replays:** View exactly how users are using your site. Includes event timelines, console logs, network activity, and 90-day data retention.

- 💬 **Surveys:** Target surveys by event or person properties. Templates for [net promoter score (NPS)](/templates/nps-survey), [product-market fit (PMF)](/templates/pmf-survey) surveys, and more.

### How does PostHog compare to Eppo?

> Both Eppo and PostHog tools support core feature flag and A/B testing components. The biggest difference is their approach to data warehouses:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both Eppo and PostHog support core feature flag and A/B testing components. The biggest difference is their approach to data warehouses:
```

- Eppo is warehouse-native, meaning that it integrates with your existing data tools like Snowflake or Postgres. 

- PostHog is not warehouse-native, but instead aims to replace your existing data stack by combining product analytics, [pipelines](/docs/cdp), and warehousing into one platform. This eliminates the need for stitching together integrations between third-party tools, and makes it easier for engineers to work with data. 

Besides this, PostHog offers product analytics, session replays, and surveys, whereas Eppo does not. On the other hand, Eppo offers multi-armed bandit testing (called "contextual bandits" in Eppo) and [CUPED analysis](https://matteocourthoud.github.io/post/cuped/), whereas PostHog does not.

> <ComparisonTable column1="PostHog" column2="Eppo">

Author: Would love feedback on if the length of this table is too long. Im considering removing the A/B/n multivariate tests row

Reviewer: I'd drop A/B testing (it's kind of implied) and maybe secondary metrics? I don't mind the table length too much, though.

  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Local evaluation" description="Use local, cached flag values to increase speed" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Scheduling" description="Schedule flag updates and rollouts" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Payloads" description="Flags with string, number, or JSON payloads" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="A/B testing" description="Run tests and see the impact of changes with custom goals and reports" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Multivariate (A/B/n) testing" description="Test multiple variants of a change" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Secondary metrics" description="Monitor impact on unrelated metrics" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Multi-armed bandit" description="Optimize tests automatically by allocating traffic to the best performing variant." /> 
  <ComparisonRow column1="Bayesian" column2="Bayesian, Frequentist" feature="Statistics engine" description="How the results of an experiment are calculated" />

>   <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="AI/LLM support" description="Compare models with experiments, view performance, cost, and latency" />

Author: Eppo have done this annoying thing where they call out [supporting AI apps](https://www.geteppo.com/artificial-intelligence) as a core feature, but in reality its not a standalone feature. Instead, its integrating their existing a/b tests code in LLMs. 

Because they call it out, I've added it as a row here. Would love to know if you feel Im potraying us/them accurately

Reviewer: I think keep it in.

  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="AI/LLM support" description="Compare models with experiments, view performance, cost, and latency" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Open source" description="Audit code, contribute to roadmap, and build integrations" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Transparent pricing" description="Get pricing immediately without talking to sales" />
</ComparisonTable>

### Why do companies use GrowthBook?

According to G2, reviewers choose GrowthBook for the following.

1. **Warehouse-native:** GrowthBook's integrations with the warehouses people are already using is a standout feature. It enables them to extract and make use of existing data.

2. **Visual editor:** The visual A/B test editor and experiment preview enable non-technical users to make full use of GrowthBook.

3. **Self-hostable:** Reviewers like that they have full control over GrowthBook by running it on their own infrastructure. This means no limits to data.

> #### Bottom line
> 

> > Being open source, free, and self-hostable, GrowthBook makes for a good alternative to Eppo, especially for companies in tricky regulatory situations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Being open source, free, and self-hostable, GrowthBook makes for a good alternative to Eppo, especially for companies in tricky regulatory situations.

<br />
```

## 3. Statsig

- **Founded:** 2021
- **Similar to:** LaunchDarkly, PostHog
- **Typical users:** Engineering and DevOps teams

![Statsig](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1710055416/posthog.com/contents/images/blog/best-launchdarkly-alternatives/statsig.png)

### What is Statsig?

[Statsig](/blog/posthog-vs-statsig) provides tools like feature flags, experimentation, and analytics to help companies build better products. Teams use Statsig to take the risk out of releases, experiment with new features, and monitor changes. It also includes a warehouse-native mode to connect directly and utilize your data warehouse.

> ### Key features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Key features
```

- 🚩 **Feature flags:** Take the risk out of releases with targeted feature flag rollouts.

- 🧪 **Experimentation:** Measure the impact of new changes with frequentist and Bayesian analysis engines.

- 🔧 **Warehouse-native:** Designed to integrate seamlessly with your existing data tools like Snowflake or Postgres.

- 📊 **Analytics:** Provides a single location for your metrics. Enables users to dive deeper into them with trends, bar charts, and retention analysis.

### How does Statsig compare to Eppo?

> Statsig is another similar alternative to Eppo. It includes feature flags, warehouse-native mode, and advanced A/B testing techniques such as multi-armed bandit testing. However, it's lack of JSON payloads in feature flags is sorely missed.

Reviewer: Is there a better way to say this than "sorely missed"? What's the practical limitation for users?

> Statsig is another similar alternative to Eppo. It includes feature flags, warehouse-native mode, and advanced A/B testing techniques such as multi-armed bandit testing. However, it's lack of JSON payloads in feature flags is sorely missed.

Author: ```suggestion
Statsig is another similar alternative to Eppo. It includes feature flags, warehouse-native mode, and advanced A/B testing techniques such as multi-armed bandit testing. However, its feature flags are limited to booleans only and don't support string, number, or JSON values.
```

  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="AI/LLM support" description="Compare models with experiments, view performance, cost, and latency" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="Open source" description="Audit code, contribute to roadmap, and build integrations" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Transparent pricing" description="Get pricing immediately without talking to sales" />
</ComparisonTable>

### Why do companies use Statsig?
According to G2, users are big fans of Statsig because:

1. **Experiments-focused:** Statsig provides all the tools to run successful experiments. Reviewers write this enables them to ship faster and create an experimentation mindset.

2. **Responsiveness:** The Statsig team is responsive to user issues and concerns. Reviewers appreciate how helpful support is. 

3. **Documentation:** Thanks to the solid documentation of SDKs and features, in combination with a simple UX, reviewers find Statsig easy to set up and use.

> #### Bottom line
> 

> > Statsig's feature parity with Eppo combined with transparent pricing and self-serve almost make it a no-brainer. However, its boolean-only feature flags are restricting.

Author: ```suggestion
> Statsig's feature parity with Eppo combined with transparent pricing and self-serve almost make it a no-brainer. However, developers will find their boolean-only feature flags restricting.
```

3. **Speed and availability:** High uptime and speed are critical for developers. Reviewers highlight local caching and edge computing integrations as critical ways LaunchDarkly supports these.

> #### Bottom line
>
> LaunchDarkly is a good alternative if you need powerful feature management options and don't need to run experiments directly in your data warehouse. Although its A/B testing tools lack some of Eppo's advanced features, it should be sufficient for most teams.

<br />

## 5. Flagsmith

- **Founded:** 2018
- **Similar to:** LaunchDarkly, GrowthBook
- **Typical users:** Developers, Product Teams

![Flagsmith](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1713309283/posthog.com/contents/images/blog/best-split-alternatives/growthbook.png)

### What is Flagsmith?

[Flagsmith](https://www.flagsmith.com) is an open-source tool designed to help teams manage feature releases and configurations across web, mobile, and server-side apps. Flagsmith enables teams to ship new features safely and iterate on their products more effectively.

> They offer lots of flexibility when it comes to hosting. You can choose from data centers around the world to host your data, or you can self-host.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It offers lots of flexibility when it comes to hosting. You can choose from data centers around the world to host your data, or you can self-host.
```

> ### Key features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Key features
```

  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="AI/LLM support" description="Compare models with experiments, view performance, cost, and latency" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Open source" description="Audit code, contribute to roadmap, and build integrations" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Transparent pricing" description="Get pricing immediately without talking to sales" />
</ComparisonTable>

### Why do companies use Flagsmith?

According to [G2 reviews](https://www.g2.com/products/flagsmith/reviews), users appreciate these aspects of Flagsmith:

1. **Flexibility in deployment:** Flagsmith can be hosted in the cloud, on-premise, or in a private cloud, providing flexibility to meet different security and compliance needs.

2. **Open source:** Flagsmith's open-source nature allows for full transparency and community contributions.

3. **Comprehensive feature management:** Flagsmith offers a wide range range of features for managing feature releases and iterations.

> #### Bottom line
> 

> > Flagsmith is an excellent Eppo alternative if you are looking for an open-source solution with flexible deployment options and comprehensive feature management capabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Flagsmith is an excellent Eppo alternative if you are looking for an open-source solution with flexible deployment options and comprehensive feature management capabilities.

<br />
```
